Field Crops Research 227 (2018) 30–40 
Contents lists available at ScienceDirect 
Field Crops Research 
journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/fcr 
Long term biochar effects on corn yield, soil quality and profitability in the T
US Midwest 
Deborah M. Allera, Sotirios V. Archontoulisa,⁎, Wendong Zhangb, Wendiam Sawadgob, David A. Lairda, Kenneth Moorea 
aDepartment of Agronomy, Iowa State University, Ames, IA, 50011, United States 
bDepartment of Economics, Iowa State University, Ames, IA, 50011, United States 
ARTICLE INFO 
Keywords: 
APSIM 
Nitrate leaching 
Soil organic carbon 
Residue harvesting 
Economic analysis 
Sustainability 
1. Introduction 
ABSTRACT 
Corn production in the US Midwest has the potential to generate a large amount of crop residue for bioenergy production. However, unconstrained harvesting of crop residues is associated with a long-term decline in soil quality. Biochar applications can mitigate many of the negative effects of residue removal but data and economic analyses to support decision making are lacking. To explore sustainable and profitable practices for residue harvesting in central Iowa we used 11 years of soil, crop yield, and management data to calibrate the Agricultural Production Systems sIMulator (APSIM) biochar model. We then used the model to evaluate how different biochar types and application rates impact productivity and environmental performance of conven tional corn and corn-soybean cropping systems in Iowa under different N fertilizer application rates and residue harvesting scenarios. A cost-benefit analysis was also employed to identify the economically optimal biochar application rate from both producer and societal perspectives. Modeling results showed for both continuous corn and corn-soybean rotations that as biochar application rate increased (0–90 Mg ha−1) nitrate leaching decreased (2.5–20%) and soil carbon levels increased (8–115%), but there was only a small impact on corn yields (–2.6 to 0.6%). The cost-benefit analysis revealed that public benefits, evaluated from decreased nitrate leaching and increased soil carbon levels, significantly outweighed the private revenue accrued from crop yield gains, and that a biochar application rate of 22 Mg ha−1 was more cost-effective (per ton) compared to higher biochar rates. Overall, this study found that applying biochar once at a rate of 22 Mg ha−1 allows for the sustainable annual removal of 50% of corn residue for 32 years, is profitable for farmers even with minimal impact on grain yield, and beneficial to society through reduced nitrate leaching and increased soil organic carbon levels. 
widespread benefits for soil and environmental quality (Giller et al., 
1997; Karlen et al., 2006; Russell et al., 2006; Davis et al., 2012; Lal, 
The US Midwest is one of the largest and most productive agri cultural regions globally; producing nearly one-third of the world’s corn (Zea mays L.) and soybean (Glycine max L.) crops (FAOSTAT, 2015). In Iowa specifically, corn for grain is planted on nearly 5.7 million hec tares and soybeans on more than 3.6 million hectares (USDA NASS, 2016), covering roughly 80% of the landscape (Newton and Kuethe, 2015). As the number of hectares devoted to growing corn and soybean has increased in response to rising feed, fuel, and food demand, crop ping system diversity has largely been eliminated (Liebman et al., 2013). This has potentially negative consequences as more diverse systems that include long-term rotations are well known to have 
2015; Aller et al., 2017). 
Additionally, the shift to finding alternative energy sources has meant corn residue is becoming a high value product. A US Department of Energy report in 2005 estimated biomass recovered from crop re sidues could significantly contribute to US energy production (Perlack et al., 2005). Specifically, Iowa farms produce the highest concentration of corn residue, independent of management scenario, for bioenergy production nationwide (Graham et al., 2007). However, residues left in the field have many positive impacts on soil and ecosystem functioning including: maintaining soil organic matter (SOM) levels, reducing soil erosion by wind and water, and increasing soil microbial activity and 
Abbreviations: APSIM, Agricultural Production Systems sIMulator; CC, continuous corn; CS, corn-soybean; C, carbon; GDD, growing degree days; ME, modeling efficiency; NO3, nitrate; RMSE, root mean square error; RRMSE, relative root mean square error; SOC, soil organic carbon ⁎ Corresponding author. E-mail address: sarchont@iastate.edu (S.V. Archontoulis). 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.fcr.2018.07.012 
Received 8 November 2017; Received in revised form 23 July 2018; Accepted 29 July 2018 
Available online 09 August 2018 
0378-4290/ © 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved. 
D.M. Aller et al. Field Crops Research 227 (2018) 30–40 
sequestering carbon (Wilhelm et al., 2007; Lal and Pimentel, 2007; Blanco-Canqui and Lal, 2009; Laird and Chang, 2013). Soil quality and long-term agricultural productivity will be negatively impacted if crop residues are continuously removed in an unsustainable way (Wilhelm et al., 2004; Laird and Chang, 2013). Some of the potential negative effects of residue removal, however, could be offset through the in corporation of soil amendments. Biochar, the charcoal like co-product of biomass pyrolysis, is a soil amendment that can enhance soil quality and agricultural productivity while simultaneously sequestering carbon (Laird et al., 2009; Lehmann and Joseph, 2015). 
The wide range of options for residue management and the com plexity, uncertainty, and long time-scales underpinning the outcome of these options makes it difficult to develop sound residue management strategies for optimizing the agronomic and environmental benefits based purely on experimental studies. Agro-ecosystem models that in tegrate multiple factors influencing residue C and N dynamics over both short- and long-time scales are capable of predicting and explaining complex interactions between soil-crop processes and hence can facil itate a systems level of understanding (Thorburn et al., 2005). The Agricultural Production Systems sIMulator (APSIM, Keating et al., 2003; Holzworth et al., 2014) is such a model. The APSIM model has been successfully used to simulate various aspects of cropping systems in Iowa (Malone et al., 2007; Archontoulis et al., 2014a, b; Basche et al., 2016; Dietzel et al., 2016; Martinez-Feria et al., 2016; Togliatti et al., 2017). 
Recently, a biochar model was developed for the APSIM platform (Archontoulis et al., 2016) to simulate the effects of biochar amend ments and to enhance understanding of biochar’s long-term impacts on agro-ecosystem performance. Initial biochar model testing using field experimental data that contained various biochar application rates (Rogovska et al., 2014) showed very good agreement between simu lations and experimental observations (Archontoulis et al., 2016). However, additional testing of the biochar model is needed before it can be used for scenario analysis and agricultural assessments to support decision-making. 
The specific objectives of this study were to 1) to calibrate the APSIM biochar model for predicting the impact of biochar amendments on corn grain yields and soil organic carbon (SOC) levels for continuous corn and corn-soybean cropping systems in central Iowa, and 2) to use the calibrated biochar model to evaluate the long-term (32-years) ef fects of different biochar types and application rates on grain and biomass productivity and environmental performance of corn and corn soybean cropping systems under different management scenarios that include varying nitrogen application and residue removal rates. We hypothesized that biochar applications can offset the negative effects of residue harvesting on SOC levels, while not impacting corn yields. 
2. Materials and methods 
2.1. Dataset and measurements 
The experimental dataset used to calibrate the model was from a crop rotation experiment conducted at Iowa State University’s Sorenson Research Farm in Boone County, IA from 2006–2016. A continuous record (11 years) of end-of-season grain yields, detailed yearly man agement records and periodic soil organic carbon data were available (for details see Aller et al., 2017). 
The overall field experiment was arranged in a completely rando mized block design with split plots that included five different crop rotations: continuous corn, corn-soybean, corn-soybean-triticale/soy bean-corn-soybean-triticale/soybean, corn-corn-corn/switchgrass switchgrass-switchgrass-switchgrass, and continuous switchgrass. Rotations were in a six-year cycle with all phases of each rotation present every year in four replicate blocks and with complete removal of aboveground biomass from all plots containing corn, switchgrass, and triticale every year. Biochar was applied on one-half of the 192 split 
plots over four consecutive years (2012, 2013, 2014, and 2015) fol lowing the corn-phase of each rotation. A slow-pyrolysis hardwood biochar (number 10 granular charcoal, Royal Oak Enterprises, LLC., Roswell, GA) was applied at a rate of 22.4 t ha−1 and was incorporated to a depth of 20 cm with a single pass of a rotary tiller. 
Two of the five cropping systems are considered in this study, the continuous corn (CC) and corn-soybean (CS) rotation. We chose these two systems because together they comprise 93% of the cropping sys tems in Iowa (USDA NASS, 2016) and the corn and soybean models in APSIM have been well tested and validated in this environment (Archontoulis et al., 2014a, b; Basche et al., 2016; Dietzel et al., 2016; Puntel et al., 2016; Martinez-Feria et al., 2016; Togliatti et al., 2017). Biochar applications made in 2012, 2013, and 2014 for the CC system and in 2012 and 2013 for the CS rotation system were included in the model calibration effort. 
Daily weather information to drive APSIM simulations were re trieved from the Iowa Environmental Mesonet (2017), which reports data from a weather station approximately 2 km north of the field site. The baseline soil profile used in the model was the Clarion soil series (Fine-loamy, mixed, superactive, mesic Typic Hapludolls) as this is the dominant soil series at the site. Soil parameters obtained from the soil survey database (USDA NRCS, 2017) were adjusted based on analysis of samples collected from the field site (Aller et al., 2017). Parameters adjusted included the drained upper limit (DUL), lower limit (LL), sa turation point (SAT), bulk density (BD), and soil organic carbon (SOC) content. We used the average of SOC measurements for all 0–30 cm samples collected from no-biochar plots between 2006–2016. The SOC values for the sub-soil (30–220 cm) and DUL, LL, and BD values for the entire soil profile were based on analysis of deep cores collected in 2016 (unpublished data). The soil profile parameter values can be found in the supplementary material (Tables S1 and S2). 
2.2. The APSIM model - initialization and calibration 
The APSIM model version 7.9 was used in this study along with the following component models: corn and soybean crop models (Wang et al., 2002; Keating et al., 2003), Soil N (soil N and C cycling model with the default soil temperature model; Probert et al., 1998), SoilWat (a tipping bucket soil water model; Probert et al., 1998); SURFACEOM (residue model; Probert et al., 1998; Thorburn et al., 2001, 2005); and the biochar model (Archontoulis et al., 2016). 
Management practices specified for each crop within APSIM in cluded rules for crop rotations, tillage, biochar tillage (to incorporate the biochar immediately after application in the plots and years ap plicable), sowing, fertilizing, and harvesting. Nitrogen fertilizer was applied at a rate of 190 kg ha−1 annually for continuous corn and 135 kg ha−1 in corn years only for the corn-soybean rotation. A 110- day relative maturity corn hybrid and a maturity group 2 soybean variety were used. 
To initiate the SOC, soil N pools across the profile and other model parameters (e.g. residue amount, carbon-to-nitrogen ratio), we ran si mulations for 6-years prior to the start of the analyzed simulations, similar to Dietzel et al. (2016). The initial 6-years of simulated data were excluded from model analysis and corn yield and SOC values were output. Soybean yields were simulated but not analyzed in this study. 
During model calibration we replaced annual seeding rates (targets) with plant stand counts measured in the field. This additional man agement information substantially improved agreement between mea sured and predicted corn yields because the model assumes that the number of plants sown equals the number harvested. It does not ac count for plant losses between sowing and harvest due to management practices (e.g., poor germination) or environmental factors (e.g., frost). The next step was to adjust the maize cultivar specific parameters as we initially used a 110-day relative maturity hybrid from the APSIM da tabase. We made the following changes: 1) time from emergence to the end of vegetative stage was increased from 214 to 250 growing degree 
31
D.M. Aller et al. Field Crops Research 227 (2018) 30–40 
days (GDD) to achieve a final leaf number of about 18 leaves that is common in this environment, 2) time from flowering to maturity was 
RRMSE = RMSE 
O* 100 avg (2) 
decreased from 885 to 820 to achieve earlier and more realistic ma turity dates GDD, 3) time from flowering to the start of grain fill was 
=− ∑ − 
∑ − MESO 1 () 
2 
2 (3) 
increased from 150 to 170 GDD similar to Puntel et al. (2016), and 4) time from maturity to ripening was increased from 1 to 180 GDD to allow for the kernel dry-down period since we ran the model sequen tially to better represent the system (see also Table S4). These changes were guided by previous modeling exercises in this region (Archontoulis et al., 2014a, 2016; Puntel et al., 2016; Togliatti et al., 2017). The same corn cultivar was used in every year of the simulation. In the field, different corn hybrids were used but all of them had the same relative maturity. Also, no changes were made to the parameter values in the soybean, soil water, and nitrogen models. 
The simulation process was continuous, without annual reset. A total of 96 simulations were performed for the CC and CS systems, which included 48 plots with biochar and 48 plots without biochar. We ran the model on a plot by plot basis because biochar was applied to different subplots over a four year period, as described previously (for details see Aller et al., 2017). 
The biochar model was included in simulations for plots where biochar was applied. Within the biochar model we adjusted the fol lowing management information: timing of application, amount of biochar applied, depth of biochar incorporation; and the following measured soil and biochar parameter information: sand and clay con tent, biochar carbon fraction, biochar labile fraction, and biochar C:N ratio (Aller et al., 2017). All other biochar parameter values were de fault values derived from Archontoulis et al. (2016) during biochar model development, parameterization, and testing. All biochar para meter values are presented in the supplementary material (Table S3). A brief description of the biochar model follows. 
The biochar model adds a new biochar C pool to the APSIM soil model that contains both labile and recalcitrant components. The daily rate of biochar decomposition is simulated by a double exponential decay function that accounts for water, temperature and N limitations. Parameters in this function are biochar properties such as biochar ap plication amount, labile/recalcitrant biochar fraction, carbon fraction in the biochar, and mean residence time of each pool. The decomposed biochar C is partitioned into C emissions to the atmosphere and C transfers to the microbial biomass (BIOM) and humic (HUM) pools. In addition to the changes in the size of the SOC pools (BIOM and HUM) imposed by biochar decomposition, additional functionality has been added to the biochar model to account for the positive and negative priming effects that were not utilized in this study. The biochar model simulates soil N mineralization or immobilization of inorganic N based on the biochar C:N ratio, which is an input to the model. Furthermore, the biochar model simulates changes in soil cation exchange capacity and soil pH dynamics that affect soil N dynamics. Adsorption and desorption of NH4 due to biochar addition are included in the model and default values were used in this study. In terms of biochar effects on soil hydrology and aeration, the biochar model dynamically simulates changes in soil bulk density (and porosity) due to biochar C addition or SOC loss as well as changes in field capacity. The emergent changes in soil water and nitrogen affect crop water and nitrogen uptake by the crop model and therefore crop yield simulations. For more details on the biochar model refer to Archontoulis et al. (2016). 
2.3. Model performance evaluation 
Agreement between simulated and measured values was assessed using the root mean square error (RMSE), relative root mean square error (RRMSE), and modeling efficiency (ME) statistics. 
() iN12 
() avg 
OO 
where N is the total number of observations, S is the simulated value, O is the measured value, and Oavg is the average of the measured values. Lower values of RMSE and RRMSE indicate better model fit, as they provide the absolute and relative error between the simulated and measured values, respectively. Modeling efficiency (scale < 0–1), which describes the average model performance across all observations (Archontoulis and Miguez, 2015), was determined as an indicator of overall goodness of fit. Modeling efficiency is useful when comparing model performance between different datasets because it normalizes the data (Wallach, 2006). 
2.4. Model application 
The calibrated model was used to investigate the long-term (32- years) impacts of biochar application on corn yields, SOC levels, and NO3 leaching under various management conditions for CC and CS systems. Nitrate leaching was defined as the amount of nitrate leached below 1.5 m, the typical root zone for corn and soybean crops in Iowa (Ordóñez et al., 2018). Specifically, the factorial simulation experiment evaluated three different nitrogen application rates (75, 150, and 225 kg N ha−1), three residue removal rates (0, 50, and 90% removal), four biochar application rates (0, 22, 45, 90 Mg ha−1), two biochar types (hardwood, slow pyrolysis with a high C:N ratio and corn stover, fast-pyrolysis with a low C:N ratio), and two crop sequences (con tinuous corn and corn-soybean rotation). This resulted in 3 × 3 × 4 × 2 × 2 = 144 simulations. Simulations were run sequen tially over a 37-year period (1980–2016), with the first five years (1980–1984) prior to biochar application excluded from the analysis. The sequential simulation resulted in roughly the same starting SOC value as in 2006 (calibration). Historical weather data were used to make inferences regarding future changes in SOC and other soil vari ables. Biochar was applied once in year 1985. Overall, 4608 data (year x management combinations) on corn yield (kg ha−1), SOC (%), and NO3-N leaching were used for the scenario study. From these data we calculated the average percent difference between biochar and no biochar treatments on corn yield and NO3 leaching values over the 32- year period. For SOC we calculated the percent difference between SOC levels in 1985 (pre-biochar application) and 2016 (32-years after bio char application). 
2.5. Economic analysis 
A cost-benefit analysis using a partial budget approach was em ployed to evaluate the net present value of expected future private and public net economic benefits of the various biochar application and residue removal rate scenarios over the 32-year simulation period starting from 2017. We assumed that the effects of biochar on crop yields, SOC levels, and NO3 leaching for 1985–2016 (percentage change) would apply for the next 32 years, and evaluated the future benefits from 2017 to 2048 following biochar application in 2017. This allowed for greater insight into whether or not a producer should apply biochar in the present day and at what rate it should be applied. We used the agronomic and environmental outcomes of the 144 simula tions and assigned literature-driven values to determine the economic costs and benefits relative to the respective baseline scenario for each cropping system (Calkins and Dipietre, 1983). The net present value of benefits were the summation of discounted annual benefits over the 32- year simulation using a commonly employed 5% discount rate 
= ∑ − − RMSESO N 
(Nordhaus, 2017). We focused the analysis on the prevailing production (1) 
baseline scenarios, which were represented by the 2.75 ha experimental 32
D.M. Aller et al. Field Crops Research 227 (2018) 30–40 
field site that had no biochar, no residue removal, and an N application rate of 225 kg N ha−1 every year in the CC system and 150 kg N ha−1 in corn years of the CS rotation system. This entailed varying the C:N ratio of the biochar (high or low), the biochar application rate, application rate of N fertilizer, and rate of residue removal in both the CC and CS systems. From the analysis we not only derived the net present value of the private and public benefits and the corresponding equivalent an nualized cost, but also determined the private and public breakeven cost, which represents the maximum per-ton price of biochar the pro ducer could afford to pay. 
2.5.1. Net private benefits 
The net private benefits were determined from increased cash crop yields relative to the baseline plus net-revenues due to the sale of re sidue. As previously discussed, we assumed the same percentage change in crop yields above the USDA long-term projected trend line yields from 2017 to 2048 (USDA OCE, 2017) as revealed from the APSIM simulations for 1985–2016. Annual long-term projected nominal corn and soybean prices and a time-constant stover price were used (USDA OCE, 2017; Edwards, 2014). The $13 per ton net-revenue from corn stover removal was determined from the price of stover as feed minus the farmers harvest and transportation costs. We assumed that the private costs were labor and machinery expenses from a one-time biochar application, plus the additional cost of nitrogen beyond the rate applied in the respective baseline scenarios for each system. We also assumed that all other corn and soybean production costs were iden tical across the 2.75 ha field in all scenarios. The net present value of the net private benefits acquired annually and summed over the 32-year period were calculated using a 5% discount rate by the following equation: 
Net private benefits = value from yield increase above future trend line yield + value from sale of stover – biochar application cost To calculate the private breakeven cost for a farmer applying bio char, the net private benefits were divided by the quantity of biochar applied in each scenario. The final value represents the maximum price a farmer would pay to not lose any revenue by applying biochar, re lative to the baseline scenario. 
2.5.2. Net public benefits 
The net public benefits were determined from the reduction in NO3- N leaching and the increase in SOC, which was given a value based on the corresponding reduction in CO2 emissions from each cropping system. We quantified the value of decreased NO3-N leached relative to the baseline scenario annually using an equilibrium price implied from water quality trading, $3.13 for each pound nitrate saved (Ribaudo et al., 2014), and summed that over the 32-year simulation period for each scenario using a 5% discount rate. The reduction in CO2 emitted for each scenario was calculated annually relative to the baseline sce nario, based on average SOC measures across all 0–30 cm samples, as suming that for every ton increase in SOC there is one less ton of CO2-C emitted in the future. We only consider changes in SOC (in-field) and do not attempt to quantify system level CO2 changes that may be asso ciated with biochar transportation and application. The economic value of future CO2 emission reductions was converted into a dollar amount using a $36 per ton social cost of carbon and a 3% discount rate (Nordhaus, 2017). Considering the global nature of greenhouse gases, a localized carbon sequestration measure was also calculated by scaling the global value of reduced carbon emissions by Iowa’s share of the global population (Hoque and Kling, 2016) to estimate local level CO2 emissions. Annual net public benefits were calculated using the fol lowing equation: 
Net public benefits = value of reduced NO3-N leaching + reduced CO2 emissions through improvements in SOC (in-field) 
Table 1 
Model performance before and after calibration in simulating corn yields in continuous corn (CC) and corn-soybean (CS) systems (N = 48 plots x 11 years = 528 per cropping system). 
Before calibration After calibration 
Cropping system RMSE RRMSE ME RMSE RRMSE ME kg ha−1 % – kg ha−1 % – 
Continuous corn 3168 34.6 −1.03 1482 16.2 0.56 Corn-soybean 2415 23.5 −0.30 1516 14.7 0.49 
2.5.3. Total net benefits 
The net present value of the total net benefits were calculated as the sum of the net present value of the net private benefit and net public benefit. We also calculated an equivalent annualized cost assuming a 5% discount rate and a 32-year project life. Equivalent annualized cost is equal to the net present value divided by the present value annuity factor. The public breakeven cost for each scenario was calculated as the total net benefits divided by the quantity of biochar applied in each scenario. This value represents the maximum price at which it would benefit all of society, including the farmer, if the farmer applied bio char. Lastly, the potential benefits associated with changes in land value were not included in the analysis. 
3. Results 
3.1. Model performance for corn yields 
Across treatments and years, the calibrated model performed well in simulating annual corn yields in both the CC and CS systems (Table 1; Fig. S1). In the CC system, RMSE decreased from 3168 to 1482 kg ha−1, the RRMSE from 34.6 to 16.2%, and the ME increased from -1.03 to 0.56 before and after model calibration, respectively. Similarly, in the CS rotation, the RMSE decreased from 2415 to 1526 kg ha−1, the RRMSE from 23.5 to 14.7%, and the ME increased from −0.3 to 0.49 from the uncalibrated to calibrated model, respectively. 
In the no-biochar plots, year-to-year variability in corn yields was simulated well by the model (data not shown). In only two out of the 11 years (viz. 2006 and 2015) the model underestimated measured yields for both cropping systems. The model performed slightly better in si mulated corn yields in the CS rotation (RRMSE = 15.0%, ME = 0.60) than in the CC system (RRMSE = 15.9%, ME = 0.57). 
In the biochar plots, model results showed satisfactory agreement between measured and simulated yields following different years of biochar application (Fig. 1). For the CC system, both measured and simulated grain yields increased following biochar application for the three different years of biochar applications (2012, 2013, and 2014, see Fig. 1). A similar increase was observed for the control plots (Fig. 1), however, the yield increase in the biochar plots, as determined from the measured data, was 837, 943, and 760 kg ha−1, in 2012, 2013, and 2014, compared to the no-biochar plots, respectively (data not shown). But this observed yield increase in the biochar plots is confounded by tillage and thus may not be a true biochar effect (the experimental site was under strict no-till management except for a single roto tillage operation to incorporate the biochar into their respective subplots). In the 2012 and 2013 biochar application years the model showed lower ME compared to their respective controls. Model performance was equal when the 2014 biochar and no-biochar plots were evaluated (Fig. 1). 
For the CS rotation the model showed similar results as for the CC system (Fig. S2). Average corn yields were largely underpredicted in only 2006 and 2016 for the 2012 biochar applied plots and in 2013 and 2015 for the 2013 biochar applied plots. The relative model error and the ME were both lower in the 2012 biochar plots compared to the no biochar controls. While the 2013 biochar plots showed greater relative 
33
D.M. Aller et al. Field Crops Research 227 (2018) 30–40 
Fig. 1. Impact of biochar applied in 2012, 2013, or 2014 on corn 
yields for a CC cropping system across 11 years. Measured values 
(black diamonds) are the average of all plots with biochar (left 
side) and no-biochar plots (right side) with error bars indicating 
standard deviations. Predicted yields (blue line) are the average of 
all plots with biochar (left side) and no-biochar plots (right side) 
with shaded standard deviation bands. (For interpretation of the 
references to color in this figure legend, the reader is referred to 
the web version of this article). 
model error and lower ME than the control plots. Indicating that overall model performance is slightly better at estimating corn yields in the control plots then the biochar plots for the CS rotation system (Fig. S2). 
3.2. Model performance for soil organic carbon 
The model estimated well SOC levels in both biochar and no-biochar plots for both the CC and CS systems across the 11 years analyzed (Figs. 2 and S3). Across both biochar and no-biochar plots the model in general overestimated SOC levels in 2012 and 2013. While in the bio char plots, regardless of year of biochar application, the model under estimated SOC levels in 2016 only. In both cropping systems model predictions of SOC varied little, while measured data were more vari able (Figs. 2 and S3). This is attributed to sampling variability from field measurements. 
Relative model error was higher but overall model performance was better in the biochar plots compared to the control plots for both the CC and the CS systems (Figs. 2 and S3). Further, for both cropping systems, model agreement between the predicted and measured SOC data was best for the 2014 biochar application year. Overall, both simulated and measured data showed similar trends over time for SOC levels. 
3.3. Model scenario analysis 
We used the calibrated model and historical weather data to simu late the impact of two biochar types, four biochar application rates, three residue removal rates, and three nitrogen fertilizer rates on corn yields, nitrate leaching and SOC levels over a 32-year period. Overall the changes in average corn yields attributable to biochar were small over the 32-year simulation period and across all scenarios. The largest simulated effect was a yield decline of 2.6% for the CC system with application of 90 Mg ha−1 high C biochar, 0% residue removal, and a fertilization rate of 75 kg N ha−1 (Fig. 3), which would put the corn crop under considerable N stress. The 2.6% yield loss equates to a total 
of 6112 kg ha−1 (97 bu ac−1) or an average of 191 kg ha−1 yr−1 (3 bu ac−1 yr−1) over the 32-year simulation period. 
Although the overall effect of biochar on corn yields was small, the model indicated a complex cropping system by N fertilization rate by biochar application rate by residue removal rate interaction. Simulated corn yields for the CC and CS cropping systems showed different trends for residue removal rates for the 75 and 150 kg N ha−1 fertilization rate scenarios (Fig. 3). For the CC system, the 75 kg N ha-1 fertilization rate without residue removal resulted in the largest yield decline followed by the 90% and then 50% residue removal rates, regardless of biochar application rate. At the same fertilization rate but for the CS rotation system, a residue removal rate of 50% had the largest yield decline followed by the 90% and then 0% residue removal rates, regardless of biochar application rate. At the 150 kg N ha−1 fertilization rate corn yields decreased for all biochar application and residue removal rates compared to the no-biochar control for the CC system. Whereas in the CS rotation system corn yields increased at the 0% and 50% residue removal rates and decreased at the 90% residue removal rate regardless of biochar application rate (Fig. 3). These differences are attributed primarily to biochar and crop residue effects on N immobilization/ mineralization with a lesser effect due to soil water. Specifically, the model predicted that biochar applications would decrease N availability to the crop while the labile C in biochar is being decomposed due to N immobilization. The effect of biochar treatments on corn yields was positive at the 225 kg N ha−1 fertilization rate regardless of biochar application and residue removal rates (Fig. 3). At the 225 kg N ha−1 fertilization rate, N availability is no longer limiting to crop growth and hence the positive aspects of biochar on soil quality boost yields. 
The high and low C biochar treatments had similar effects on si mulated corn yields with only a decreased magnitude of change relative to the control observed for the low C biochar compared to the high C biochar treatments (Fig. 3). When the low C biochar type was applied the greatest yield decline was less than 2% in the CC system scenario of 75 kg N ha−1, 0% residue removal, and 90 Mg ha−1 biochar (Fig. 3). 
34
D.M. Aller et al. Field Crops Research 227 (2018) 30–40 
Fig. 2. Percent SOC across 11 years as impacted by biochar ap 
plied in 2012, 2013, or 2014 for the CC system. Measured values 
(black diamonds) are the average of all plots with biochar (left 
side) and no-biochar plots (right side) with error bars showing 
standard deviations. Predicted yields (blue line) are the average of 
all plots with biochar (left side) and no-biochar plots (right side) 
with shaded standard deviation bands. (For interpretation of the 
references to color in this figure legend, the reader is referred to 
the web version of this article). 
The difference is attributed to the lower C:N ratio of the low C biochar relative to the high C:N ratio of high C biochar, which means less N immobilization during decomposition of the low C biochar relative to the high C biochar. 
The simulations showed similar patterns for NO3 leaching as were observed for corn yields (Fig. 4). Simulation results indicate that ap plication of both the high and low C biochars decreased NO3 leaching through the root zone (NO3 leached below 1.5 m) for all N fertilization and residue removal rates and for both cropping systems (Fig. 4). The percent reduction in NO3 leaching attributed to the biochar treatments relative to the no-biochar controls increased with the N fertilization rate and the amount of biochar applied. The maximum impact on NO3 

leaching for both cropping systems was a reduction of about 10% when the low C biochar was applied and a nearly 20% reduction when the high C biochar was applied (Fig. 4). This difference is attributed to the C:N ratio of the biochar and the availability of biochar C for N im mobilization. 
Residue removal decreased NO3 leaching at the 75 and 150 kg N ha−1 N fertilization rates, but increased NO3 leaching at the 225 kg N ha−1 fertilization rate (Fig. 4). These differences are attributed to N being limiting to the crop at the low and medium fertilization rates, so as more residue is removed the availability of N increases, enhancing root growth, and reducing NO3 leaching. Whereas, at the high fertili zation rate, N is not limiting plant growth, thus as residue removal 
Fig. 3. Differences in average corn yields (kg ha−1) between biochar and no-biochar control treatments for the 32 year simu lation (1985–2016) in CC and CS rotation systems under different N fertilization and residue management scenarios and when two types of biochar (a low C content and low C:N ratio biochar and a high C content and C:N ratio biochar) were applied in 1985. 
35
D.M. Aller et al. Field Crops Research 227 (2018) 30–40 
Fig. 4. Average difference in NO3 leaching for the 32 year simulation (1985–2016) between biochar and no-biochar control treatments for the CC and CS rotation systems under different N fertilization and residue management scenarios and when low/high C content and C:N ratio biochars were applied in 1985. 
increases, N immobilization decreases, and NO3 leaching increases. The 32-year simulation indicates that biochar applications, biochar type, and residue removal rate have large impacts on SOC levels while cropping system, and N fertilization rate have relatively small effects on SOC levels (Fig. 5). There was a direct relationship between biochar application rate and the increase in SOC content at the end of the 32- year simulation. For the no-biochar control scenarios, SOC levels in creased over time for the 0% residue removal treatment but decreased over time for the 50% and 90% residue removal treatments. For the scenarios with 22, 45, 90 Mg ha−1 biochar application rates, as percent residue removal increased, the percent increase in SOC levels decreased but were higher than the initial SOC levels because of the biochar C. When the low C biochar was applied, the simulations indicate a smaller increase in SOC levels over 32 years relative to the simulations using the high C biochar. This observation is attributed to the lower C content and C:N ratio of the low C biochar. 
3.4. Economic analysis 
The cost-benefit analysis indicated that sufficient N is needed to ensure a positive net benefit from biochar applications. If the crop is already short on N, a biochar application will exacerbate the N shortage resulting in a significant yield drag; lower yield relative to prevailing practices (Tables S5, S6, and S7). The assessment of private benefits indicated that as residue removal rates increase both the corn crop revenue and stover sale value increase (Tables S5, S6, and S7). When the N rate is low the corn crop revenue is negative relative to the baseline but as stover removal rate increases the value becomes less negative, while at higher rates of N, the corn crop revenue is positive and increases with increasing biochar application rate (Tables S5, S6, and S7). Also, the net private benefits are boosted significantly as re sidue removal rate increases due to a higher value from the sale of corn stover, which at the same time diminishes the value of crop yield en hancements. While some scenarios without biochar reveal a decline in revenue coming from yield as a result of residue removal, this is 

Fig. 5. Average change in total soil organic carbon levels for the 32 year simulation (1985–2016) in CC and CS rotation systems under different N fertilization and residue management scenarios and when low/high C content and C:N ratio biochars were applied in 1985. 
36
D.M. Aller et al. Field Crops Research 227 (2018) 30–40 
Fig. 6. Net private and net global public benefits for the CC and 
the CS rotation systems for different biochar application rates, 0% 
residue removal, and when a high C biochar (blue bars) and low C 
biochar (red bars) is applied. Values are relative to the baseline 
scenarios of no biochar, 0% residue removal, and 225 kg N ha−1 
and 150 kg N ha−1 for the CC and the CS rotation systems, re 
spectively. (For interpretation of the references to color in this 
figure legend, the reader is referred to the web version of this 
article). 
outweighed by the private revenue gained from stover sales. However, we do not consider potential future crop yield losses, especially in the continuous corn production system, due to the depletion of SOC levels that result from the long-term continuous removal of residue without replenishment from biochar. 
Our results reveal that the public benefits of biochar application, when coupled with the ability to harvest more crop residue, sig nificantly outweigh the private benefits enjoyed by the farmer (Figs. 6 and S4). Importantly, the global public benefits are overwhelmingly driven by the benefits from reduced CO2 emissions, especially for sce narios with higher biochar application rates and higher stover removal rates. In fact, at 50 or 90% residue removal rates, the public benefits from the reduction in NO3 leaching are substantially lower than the benefits that result from avoided CO2 emissions (Tables S5, S6, and S7). Moreover, the public benefits of reduced nutrient runoff and CO2 emissions are often external to a farmer’s decision to apply biochar. This is unless farmers are recognized and monetized in the form of cost share funding or market price premiums by preserving long-term soil health via biochar applications. In this study, the private benefits alone were not sufficient to guarantee a positive net private return from ap plying biochar. Furthermore, the marginal public benefit of reducing CO2 emissions due to additional biochar application is stagnant or lower; in other words, a higher biochar application rate actually causes a lower maximum price a farmer could afford to pay for biochar. In contrast, a higher biochar application rate leads to a greater reduction in NO3 leaching, while residue removal reduces NO3 leaching when N is insufficient for crop needs but increases NO3 leaching when N is suf ficient to meet crop needs. 
The breakeven price, both public and private, for farmers applying biochar increases as residue removal rates increase and decreases as biochar application rates increase for both cropping systems and high and low C and C:N ratio biochars. Lastly, results show that a high C and C:N ratio biochar results in greater benefits then a low C and C:N ratio biochar across all scenarios (Figs. 6 and S4; Tables S5, S6, and S7). 
4. Discussion 
This is the first study that evaluates the long-term (32-years) effect of a set of management practices (biochar application rates x biochar types x N fertilization rates x residue removal practices) on agro-eco system and economic performance for decision-making purposes. In the era of corn stover residue harvesting for bioenergy production it is critical to determine the environmental and economic trade-offs of various management strategies to ensure long-term system 
sustainability. Our results suggest that a single application of 22 Mg ha−1 biochar can support the sustainability of harvesting > 50% corn residue annually for 32 years. Here sustainability means that SOC levels increased and NO3 leaching decreased when biochar was applied re lative to no-biochar controls. 
4.1. Model performance in simulating corn yields and SOC 
This study calibrated the APSIM biochar model for a new site in central Iowa and used the calibrated model to evaluate various man agement scenarios. Overall, the calibrated model with and without biochar additions performed well in predicting year-to-year variability in corn yields and SOC levels (Figs. 1 and 2). The RRMSE of 15% for corn yield is comparable with other simulation studies in this region (Malone et al., 2007; Puntel et al., 2016). We achieved this good per formance with only two changes: cultivar specific parameters and precise management information from year to year (plant density counts). The cultivar parameters were manually selected to reflect final leaf number, silking dates and maturity dates that are common for the study environment based on past experience (Archontoulis et al., 2014a; Puntel et al., 2016). No attempts were made to further improve the RRSME of 15% because according to He et al. (2017) targeting model calibration with even lower RRMSE values is pointless because the simulated error cannot be lower than the inherent error in the measured data used for calibration. 
The model showed generally good agreement with measured SOC levels for both plots with and without biochar (Fig. 2). The models response to biochar application was an immediate increase in SOC le vels (Fig. 2). The biochar used during model performance evaluation was a high carbon hardwood biochar (76% C) that also had a high C:N ratio of 232:1. Thus, the immediate increase in the predicted SOC va lues was not surprising. Similarly, the more gradual increase observed in the measured data was expected because of environmental condi tions and sampling variability. The rate of increase and the duration of the higher SOC levels simulated by the model will change if a low carbon biochar is used. This is why it was important to consider the impacts of applying two different types of biochar in the scenario analysis. In this study, the priming coefficient in the biochar model was set to zero, which is the baseline assumption that biochar neither sti mulates degradation of biogenic SOM nor does it enhance the formation of new biogenic SOM. We used a value of zero for the priming coeffi cient because the literature on the effects of biochar on SOM formation/ mineralization is so far inconsistent. The fact that simulated and mea sured SOC values followed the same trends suggests that the priming 
37
D.M. Aller et al. Field Crops Research 227 (2018) 30–40 
effect of biochar was negligible in our study, but more research on biochars effect on priming is needed. 
4.2. Model application 
The long-term APSIM simulations revealed a range of options for decision makers to consider. The negligible effect of biochar applica tions on corn yields and the observed increasing corn yields as N fer tilization rate increased were expected for the high-quality soils in central Iowa. By contrast, variable effects of biochar applications on corn yields have been reported in other field studies (Major et al., 2010; Uzoma et al., 2011; Cornelissen et al., 2013; Rogovska et al., 2016; Laird et al., 2017). Whether the effect of biochar is positive or negative is environment, climate, and soil type dependent and other scenarios are likely to indicate different results. 
One limitation of the APSIM model is that it does not yet simulate the effects of allelopathy on corn yield predictions. Allelopathic com pounds are released from decomposing crop residues and can have harmful carryover effects. Because of allelopathy, the presence of high residue loads from the previous year can decrease early seedling growth resulting in decreased crop yields in continuous corn systems (Rogovska et al., 2014, 2016). Removing some or all of the surface residue can improve yields by reducing the release of allelopathic compounds. At the same time, in scenarios where residues are left on the field and biochar is applied, corn yields have been found to increase from 0.8–3.8 Mg ha−1 depending on biochar application rate, due to the adsorption and deactivation of allelopathic compounds onto biochar surfaces (Rogovska et al., 2014, 2016). In the scenarios evaluated here the potential positive impacts on corn yields, in response to residue removal and biochar applications, were not considered. The inclusion of algorithms that account for allelopathic effects and the potential reduction in the harmful effects of allelopathic compounds due to biochar additions should be considered as future APSIM development work. 
The observation that residue removal decreases NO3 leaching for the two lower N fertilization rates (75 and 150 kg N ha−1) but increases NO3 leaching for the higher fertilization rate (225 kg N ha−1)(Fig. 4) is attributed to the combined effects of the biochars C:N ratio and the amount of residue remaining as well as residue impacts on soil cover and soil water evaporation. When a biochar with a high C:N ratio is applied and there is greater residue left on the field, top soil N im mobilization limits NO3 leaching (Fig. 4). When N fertilizer is already limiting, in the case of the 75 and 150 kg N ha-1 rate scenarios, and more residue is removed, a smaller fraction of N is immobilized. This lower rate of N immobilization means more N is available to the plant stimulating root growth, better root growth improves the efficiency of plant N uptake and reduces NO3 leaching. However, when N is present in excess (225 kg N ha−1 rate scenario), root growth is not limited by N, and hence there is no improvement in N uptake efficiency, however higher levels of residue increase N immobilization and thus NO3 leaching is reduced with decrease residue removal. When biochar has a low C content and a low C:N ratio, the effects of a biochar application on N immobilization are significantly lower (Fig. 4). Therefore, biochar quality also has a big effect on N availability and potentially crop growth and yield. Lastly, complete validation of our NO3 leaching si mulation results is not possible but is supported by multiple on-going APSIM testing efforts in the Midwest (Martinez-Feria et al., 2016, 2018; Puntel et al., 2016, 2018; Basche et al., 2016; Dietzel et al., 2016; Togliatti et al., 2017). Observational data, from nearby sites, were further used to validate critical model parameters such as plant rooting depth (Ordóñez et al., 2018), temporal soybean N-fixation, soil water, and nitrate dynamics (unpublished data). 
Overall, the results of these scenario simulations highlight the im portance of evaluating biochar quality. Different biochars impact agricultural systems and the environment differently and thus need to be produced and applied for specific end-uses (Spokas et al., 2012; 
Novak and Busscher, 2012; Ippolito et al., 2012). 
4.3. Economic analysis 
The cost-benefits analysis assumed that if farmers could purchase biochar for the breakeven price in a given scenario they could afford to pay for biochar, hence the breakeven price is a crude measure of the farmer’s maximum willingness to pay to apply biochar. Considering private benefits alone, under current prevailing management practices that include no residue removal, it is difficult to justify the procurement and application of biochar. For example, assuming a 32-year project life, the net present value of net private benefits for a 22 Mg ha−1 biochar application would translate into an equivalent annual cost of a $5 loss per hectare for a farmer with no residue removal, but a $39 gain per hectare with 50% residue removal. Thus, in cases of residue re moval the application of biochar potentially becomes economically viable, assuming a sufficiently low biochar price, because the biochar makes the long-term harvesting of residue sustainable. Without biochar application, continuous residue harvesting will result in the long-term degradation of soil quality and ultimately declining yields. Furthermore, the farmer could be compensated via cost-shares or en vironmental trading schemes for the public benefits accrued from ap plying biochar (decreased NO3 leaching and C sequestered/decreased CO2 emitted). In the 36 difference scenarios evaluated here we showed that a lower biochar application rate, 22 Mg ha−1, tends to yield higher per-ton benefits and a higher per-ton breakeven price the farmer would be able to pay for biochar. For example, a farmer can afford to pay $28 per ton for biochar when applying biochar at a rate of 22 Mg ha−1, based on the private gains resulting from higher yields and the ability to sustainably harvest 50% of the residue. 
Across all scenarios the application of biochar appeared to be more beneficial in the CC system compared to the CS rotation system, which may be linked to a lower N application rate in the CS rotation system due to soybeans ability to fix nitrogen during the growing season, and thus less NO3 leached from the system. Under prevailing nitrogen ap plication rates in central Iowa a yield drag is unlikely with biochar applications, however, a higher initial nitrogen application rate im mediately after biochar application is recommended. 
The private benefits were predominantly driven by yield gains when N was sufficient, which tended to be minimal compared to the potential public benefits that would result from increasing SOC levels and re ducing NO3 leaching rates. However, the private benefits alone were not sufficient to guarantee a positive net private return from biochar application, as implied by the negative per-ton price if only private yield benefits were considered and there was no corn stover removal. More research is needed to quantify the yield benefits following biochar application in regions with poorer soil quality, such as in U.S. southeast, to realize the greater private benefits. In contrast, the public benefits, while large, need to be monetized in the forms of agri-environmental payments to farmers via programs like cost shares to provide additional economic incentives for greater biochar adoption. Further, while an increase in biochar application rate, holding other things constant, would increase the total private and public benefits, the maximum price a farmer could pay for the biochar may not necessarily increase. Lastly, the greater the residue removal rate the more cost-effective the scenario was because there is a high value associated with selling the residue and greater reduction in NO3 leaching rates. Assuming a sufficiently low biochar price, farmers could apply biochar to mitigate the negative yield impacts resulting from sustained residue removal, thus potentially achieving greater benefits for both farmers and society. However, the potential impact of greater residue harvesting on soil erosion rates was not evaluated in this study, but is an important factor to consider when assessing total system sustainability. Wilhelm et al. (2004) reported that maintaining SOC levels, not erosion, limits the amount of residue that can be sustainably harvested. Hence, with biochar applications sustaining SOC levels, sustainable rates of residue harvesting for 
38
D.M. Aller et al. Field Crops Research 227 (2018) 30–40 
bioenergy production could be increased. 
5. Conclusions 
The findings from this study demonstrated that over a 32-year period biochar applications can eliminate negative effects of residue harvesting on soil quality while at the same time reducing nitrate leaching, increasing soil organic carbon, and not impacting corn yields. Specifically, at least 50% of the residue can be removed annually for 32 years if a one-time application of 22 Mg ha−1 biochar is made. The simulations revealed that corn yields are most affected by the amount of N applied and not by the addition of biochar or residue removed. The opposite was observed for NO3 leaching, with increasing rates of bio char leading to the greatest reduction in NO3 leaching. Biochar appli cations are also effective for building soil organic carbon even under increasing rates of residue removal. This finding in particular, could have important positive implications for the US bioenergy industry while improving the sustainability of our agricultural systems. The cost benefit analysis revealed that the public benefits that result from ap plying biochar coupled with the ability to harvest more residue, sig nificantly outweighed the private benefits. Biochar applications are an economically viable option in Iowa when at least 50% of the residue is harvested for sale; which can be done in an environmentally sustainable way. 
Acknowledgments 
This project is supported in part by the Global Climate and Energy Project, Stanford Subaward Agreement No. 60413992-112883-A, the National Science Foundation under Grant Number EPS-1101284, the USDA-NIFA Agriculture and Food Research Initiative Competitive Grant no. 2011-68005-30411, and the USDA-NIFA Hatch project No. IOW03814. 
Appendix A. Supplementary data 
Supplementary data associated with this article can be found, in the online version, at https://doi.org/10.1016/j.fcr.2018.07.012. 
References 
Aller, D., Mazur, R., Moore, K., Hintz, R., Laird, D., Horton, R., 2017. Biochar age and crop rotation impacts on soil quality. Soil Sci. Soc. Am. J. doi 81 (5), 1157–1167. https://doi.org/10.2136/sssaj2017.01.0010. 
Archontoulis, S.V., Miguez, F.E., 2015. Nonlinear regression models and applications in agricultural research. Agron. J. 107, 786–798. 
Archontoulis, S.V., Miguez, F.E., Moore, K.J., 2014a. Evaluating APSIM maize, soil water, soil nitrogen, manure, and soil temperature modules in the Midwestern United States. Agron. J. 106, 1025–1040. 
Archontoulis, S.V., Miguez, F.E., Moore, K.J., 2014b. A methodology and an optimization tool to calibrate phenology of short-day species included in the APSIM PLANT model: application to soybean. Environ. Model. Softw. 62, 465–477. 
Archontoulis, S.V., Huber, I., Miguez, F.E., Thorburn, P.J., Rogovska, N., Laird, D.A., 2016. A model for mechanistic and system assessments of biochar effects on soils and crops and trade-offs. GCB Bioenergy 8, 1028–1045. 
Basche, A.D., Archontoulis, S.V., Kaspar, T.C., Jaynes, D.B., Parkin, T.B., Miguez, F.E., 2016. Simulating long-term impacts of cover crops and climate change on crop production and environmental outcomes in the Midwestern United States. Agric. Ecosyst. Environ. 218, 95–106. 
Blanco-Canqui, H., Lal, R., 2009. Crop residue removal impacts on soil productivity and environmental quality. Crit. Rev. Plant Sci. 28, 139–163. https://doi.org/10.1080/ 07352680902776507. 
Calkins, P.H., Dipietre, D.D., 1983. Farm Business Management: Successful Decisions in a Changing Environment. MacMillan and Company, New York. 
Cornelissen, G., Martinsen, V., Shitumbanuma, V., Alling, V., Breedveld, G., Rutherford, D., Sparrevik, M., Hale, S., Obia, A., Mulder, J., 2013. Biochar effect on maize yield and soil characteristics in five conservation farming sites in Zambia. Agronomy 3, 256–274. https://doi.org/10.3390/agronomy3020256. 
Davis, A., Hill, J., Chase, C., Johanns, A., Liebman, M., 2012. Increasing cropping system diversity balances productivity, profitability and environmental health. PLoS One 7, e47149. https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0047149. 
Dietzel, R., Liebman, M., Ewing, R., Helmers, M., Horton, R., Jarchow, M., Archontoulis, S., 2016. How efficiently do corn-and soybean-based cropping systems use water? A 
systems modeling analysis. Glob. Change Biol. 22, 666–681. https://doi.org/10. 1111/gcb.13101. 
Edwards, W., 2014. Estimating a Value for Corn Stover. Iowa State University Extension and Outreach Accessed 1 July 2017. https://www.extension.iastate.edu/agdm/ crops/html/a1-70.html. 
Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations FAOSTAT, 2015. (FAO, Rome). Available at faostat.fao.org/. 
Giller, K., Beare, M., Lavelle, P., Izac, A., Swift, M., 1997. Agricultural intensification, soil biodiversity and agroecosystem function. Appl. Soil Ecol. 6, 3–16. https://doi.org/10. 1016/S0929-1393(96)00149-7. 
Graham, R.L., Nelson, R., Sheehan, J., Perlack, R.D., Wright, L.L., 2007. Current and potential U.S. corn stover supplies. Agron. J. 99, 1–11. https://doi.org/10.2134/ agronj2005.0222. 
He, D., Wang, E., Wang, J., Robertson, M., 2017. Data requirement for effective cali bration of process-based crop models. Agr. Forest Meteorol. 234–235, 136–148. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.agrformet.2016.12.015. 
Holzworth, D.P., Huth, N.I., deVoil, P.G., Zurcher, E.J., Herrmann, N.I., McLean, G., Chenu, K., van Oosterom, E.J., Snow, V.O., Murphy, C., Moore, A.D., Brown, H., Whish, J.P.M., Verrall, S., Fainges, J., Bell, L.W., Peake, A.S., Poulton, P.L., Hochman, Z., Thorburn, P.J., Gaydon, D.S., Dalgliesh, N., Rodriguez, D., Cox, H., Chapman, S., Doherty, A., Teixeira, E., Sharp, J., Cichota, R., Vogeler, I., Li, F.Y., Wang, E., Hammer, G.L., Robertson, M.J., Dimes, J.P., Whitbread, A.M., Hunt, J., van Rees, H., McClelland, T., Carberry, P.S., Hargreaves, J.N.G., MacLeod, N.D., McDonald, C.K., Harsdorf, J., Wedgwood, S., Keating, B.A., 2014. APSIM - evolution towards a new generation of agricultural systems simulation. Environ. Model. Softw. 62, 327–350. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.envsoft.2014.07.009. 
Hoque, M., Kling, C., 2016. Economic valuation of ecosystem benefits from conservation practices targeted in Iowa nutrient reduction strategy 2013: a non market valuation approach. Iowa State University CARD Working Papers. pp. 586. 
Iowa Environmental Mesonet, 2017. Iowa Ag Climate Network. Iowa State University, Ames, IA Available at: http://mesonet.agron.iastate.edu/agclimate/ (Accessed 15 February 2017). 
Ippolito, J.A., Laird, D.A., Busscher, W.J., 2012. Environmental benefits of biochar. J. Environ. Qual. 41. https://doi.org/10.2134/jeq2012.0151. 
Karlen, D.L., Hurley, E.G., Andrews, S.S., Cambardella, C.A., Meek, D.W., Duffy, M.D., Mallarino, A.P., 2006. Crop rotation effects on soil quality at three northern corn/ soybean belt locations. Agron. J. 98, 484–495. https://doi.org/10.2134/agronj2005. 0098. 
Keating, B.A., Carberry, P.S., Hammer, G.L., Probert, M.E., Robertson, M.J., Holzworth, D., Huth, N.I., Hargreaves, J.N.G., Meinke, H., Hochman, Z., McLean, G., Verburg, K., Snow, V., Dimes, J.P., Silburn, M., Wang, E., Brown, S., Bristow, K.L., Asseng, S., Chapman, S., McCown, R.L., Freebairn, D.M., Smith, C.J., 2003. An overview of APSIM, a model designed for farming systems simulation. Eur. J. Agron. 18, 267–288. 
Laird, D.A., Chang, C.-W., 2013. Long-term impacts of residue harvesting on soil quality. Soil Till. Res. 134, 33–40. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.still.2013.07.001. Laird, D.A., Brown, R.C., Amonette, J.E., Lehmann, J., 2009. Review of the pyrolysis platform for coproducing bio-oil and biochar. Biofuels Bioprod. Bioref. 3, 547–562. https://doi.org/10.1002/bbb.169. 
Laird, D.A., Novak, J.M., Collins, H.P., Ippolito, J.A., Karlen, D.L., Lentz, R.D., Sistani, K.R., Spokas, K., Van Pelt, R.S., 2017. Multi-year and multi-location soil quality and crop biomass yield responses to hardwood fast pyrolysis biochar. Geoderma 289, 46–53. 
Lal, R., 2015. A system approach to conservation agriculture. J. Soil Water Conserv. 70, 82A–88A. https://doi.org/10.2489/jswc.70.4.82A. 
Lal, R., Pimentel, D., 2007. Biofuels from crop residues. Soil Till. Res. 93, 237–238. Lehmann, J., Joseph, S., 2015. Biochar for Environmental Management: Science, Technology and Implementation. Taylor and Francis, London. 
Liebman, M., Helmers, M., Schulte, L., Chase, C., 2013. Using biodiversity to link agri cultural productivity with environmental quality: results from three field experiments in Iowa. Renew. Agric. Food Syst. 28, 115–128. https://doi.org/10.1017/ S1742170512000300. 
Major, J., Rondon, M., Molina, D., Riha, S., Lehmann, J., 2010. Maize yield and nutrition during 4 years after biochar application to a Colombian savanna Oxisol. Plant Soil 333, 117–128. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11104-010-0327-0. 
Malone, R., Huth, N., Carberry, P., Ma, L., Kaspar, T., Karlen, D., Meade, T., Kanwar, R., Heilman, P., 2007. Evaluating and predicting agricultural management effects under tile drainage using modified APSIM. Geoderma 140, 310–322. 
Martinez-Feria, R.A., Dietzel, R., Liebman, M., Helmers, M.J., Archontoulis, S.V., 2016. Rye cover crop effects on maize: a system-level analysis. Field Crops Res. 196, 145–159. 
Martinez-Feria, R.A., Castellano, M.J., Dietzel, R., Helmers, M.J., Liebman, M., Huber, I., Archontoulis, S.V., 2018. Linking crop- and soil-based approaches to evaluate system nitrogen-use efficiency and tradeoffs. Agric. Ecosyst. Environ. 256, 131–143. 
Newton, J., Kuethe, T., 2015. Changing Landscape of Corn and Soybean Production and Potential Implications in 2015, Farm Doc Daily. Dept of Agricultural and Consumer Economics, University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign, IL. 
Nordhaus, W.D., 2017. Revisiting the social cost of carbon. PNAS 114 (7), 1518–1523. https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.1609244114. 
Novak, J.M., Busscher, W.J., 2012. Selection and use of designer biochars to improve characteristics of southeastern USA coastal Plain degraded soils. In: Lee, J.E. (Ed.), Advanced Biofuels and Bioproducts. Springer Science, New York. https://doi.org/10. 1007/978-1-4614-3348-4-7. (in press). 
Ordóñez, R.A., Castellano, M., Hatfield, J.L., Helmers, M.J., Licht, M.A., Liebman, M., Dietzel, R., Martinez-Feria, R., Iqbal, J., Puntel, L.A., Córdova, S.C., Togliatti, K., Wright, E., Archontoulis, S.V., 2018. Maize and soybean root front velocity and maximum depth in Iowa USA. Field Crop Res. 215, 122–131. https://doi.org/10. 
39
D.M. Aller et al. Field Crops Research 227 (2018) 30–40 
1016/j.fcr.2017.09.003. 
Perlack, R.D., Wright, L.L., Turhollow, A.F., Graham, R.L., Stokes, B.J., Erbach, D.C., 2005. Biomass as Feedstock for a Bioenergy and Bioproducts Industry: the Technical Feasibility of a Billion-ton Annual Supply. DOE/USDA Tech. Rep. DOE/GO 102005–2135 ORNL/TM-2005/66. www.ornl.gov/∼webworks/cppr/y2001/rpt/ 123021.pdf[verified 23 Oct. 2007]. USDOE, Office of Scientific & Technical Information, Oak Ridge, TN. 
Probert, M.E., Dimes, J.P., Keating, B.A., Dalal, R.C., Strong, W.M., 1998. APSIM’s water and nitrogen modules and simulation of the dynamics of water and nitrogen in fallow systems. Agric. Syst. 56, 1–28. https://doi.org/10.1016/S0308-521X(97)00028-0. 
Puntel, L.A., Sawyer, J.E., Barker, D.W., Dietzel, R., Poffenbarger, H., Castellano, M.J., Moore, K.J., Thorburn, P., Archontoulis, S.V., 2016. Modeling long-term corn yield response to nitrogen rate and crop rotation. Front. Plant Sci. 7, 1630. https://doi.org/ 10.3389/fpls.2016.01630. 
Puntel, L.A., Sawyer, J.E., Barker, D.W., Thorburn, P., Castellano, M.J., Moore, K.J., Vanloocke, A., Heaton, E., Archontoulis, S.V., 2018. A systems modeling approach to forecast corn economic optimum nitrogen rate. Front. Plant Sci. https://doi.org/10. 3389/fpls.2018.00436. 
Ribaudo, M., Savage, J., Aillery, M., 2014. An Economic Assessment of Policy Options to Reduce Agricultural Pollutants in the Chesapeake Bay. ERR-166. U.S. Department of Agriculture, Economic Research Service. 
Rogovska, N., Laird, D.A., Rathke, S.J., Karlen, D.L., 2014. Biochar impact on Midwestern Mollisols and maize nutrient availability. Geoderma 230, 340–347. https://doi.org/ 10.1016/j.geoderma.2014.04.009. 
Rogovska, N., Laird, D.A., Karlen, D.L., 2016. Corn and soil response to biochar appli cation and stover harvest. Field Crops Res. 187, 96–106. https://doi.org/10.1016/j. fcr.2015.12.013. 
Russell, A.E., Laird, D.A., Mallarino, A.P., 2006. Impact of nitrogen fertilization and cropping system on soil quality in midwestern mollisols. Soil Sci. Soc. Am. J. 70, 249–255. 
Spokas, K.A., Cantrell, K.B., Novak, J.M., Archer, D.A., Ippolito, J.A., Collins, H.P., Boateng, A.A., Lima, I.M., Lamb, M.C., McAloon, A.J., Lentz, R.D., Nichols, K.A., 2012. Biochar: a synthesis of its agronomic impact beyond carbon sequestration. J. 
Environ. Qual. 41, 973–989. https://doi.org/10.2134/jeq2011.0069. 
Thorburn, P.J., Probert, M.E., Robertson, F.A., 2001. Modelling decomposition of su garcane surface residues with APSIM-Residue. Field Crops Res. 70, 223–232. https:// doi.org/10.1016/S0378-4290(01)00141-1. 
Thorburn, P.J., Meier, E.A., Probert, M.E., 2005. Modelling nitrogen dynamics in su garcane systems: recent advances and applications. Field Crops Res. 92, 337–352. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.fcr.2005.01.016. 
Togliatti, K., Archontoulis, S.V., Dietzel, R., Puntel, L., VanLoocke, A., 2017. How does inclusion of weather forecasting impact in-season crop model predictions? Field Crops Res. 214, 261–272. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.fcr.2017.09.008. 
USDA-NASS (National Agricultural Statistical Service), 2016. Quick-Stats. (4.12.16.). https://www.nass.usda.gov/Quick_Stats/Ag_Overview/stateOverview.php?state= IOWA. 
USDA-NRCS (Natural Resource Conservation Service), 2017. Web Soil Survey. Available at. https://websoilsurvey.nrcs.usda.gov/app/. 
USDA-OCE, 2017. USDA Agricultural Projections to 2026. https://www.usda.gov/oce/ commodity/projections/USDA_Agricultural_Projections_to_2026.pdf. 
Uzoma, K.C., Inoue, M., Andry, H., Fujimaki, H., Zahoor, A., Nishihara, E., 2011. Effect of cow manure biochar on maize productivity under sandy soil condition. Soil Use Manag. 27, 205–212. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1475-2743.2011.00340.x. 
Wallach, D., et al., 2006. Evaluating crop models. In: Wallach, D. (Ed.), Working With Dynamic Crop Models: Evaluations, Analysis, Parameterization, and Applications. Elsevier, Amsterdam, pp. 11–53. 
Wang, E., Robertson, M.J., Hammer, G.L., Carberry, P.S., Holzworth, D., Meinke, H., Chapman, S.C., Hargreaves, J.N.G., Huth, N.I., McLean, G., 2002. Development of a generic crop model template in the cropping system model APSIM. Eur. J. Agron. 18, 121–140. 
Wilhelm, W.W., Johnson, J.M.F., Hatfield, J.L., Voorhees, W.B., Linden, D.R., 2004. Crop and soil productivity response to corn residue removal: a literature review. Agron. J. 96 (1), 1–17. 
Wilhelm, W.W., Johnson, J.M.F., Karlen, D., Lightle, D., 2007. Corn stover to sustain soil organic carbon further constrains biomass supply. Agron. J. 99, 1665–1667. https:// doi.org/10.2134/agronj2007.0150. 
40